.TH TOSS 1 "2026-02-18" "toss" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
toss \- a safer alternative to rm that moves files to a recoverable bin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B toss
[\fIFILE\fR...]
.br
.B toss
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B toss
moves files and directories to \fI~/.toss/files/\fR instead of permanently
deleting them. Each tossed item is tracked in a SQLite database at
\fI~/.toss/toss.db\fR so it can be restored to its original location later.
.PP
Running
.B toss
with no arguments prints this help.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List all items currently in the bin, showing their ID, original path,
size, and the time they were tossed.
.TP
.BR restore " [" \fIQUERY\fR "]"
Restore a tossed item to its original location. If \fIQUERY\fR is given
it filters the bin by name or path; if multiple matches are found an
interactive picker is shown. Without a query the picker shows all items.
.TP
.BR empty " [" \fB\-f\fR "]"
Permanently delete all items in the bin. Prompts for confirmation unless
.B \-f
is given.
.TP
.B mem
Show the total disk space used by the bin.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Global options"
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help for the command or subcommand and exit.
.SS "empty options"
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Skip the confirmation prompt when emptying the bin.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.toss/toss.db
SQLite database tracking every tossed item (original path, bin path,
size, timestamp).
.TP
.I ~/.toss/files/
Directory where tossed files are stored under a UUID-prefixed name.
.SH EXAMPLES
Toss a single file:
.EX
$ toss old-report.pdf
.EE
.PP
Toss multiple items at once:
.EX
$ toss build/ node_modules/ tmp.log
.EE
.PP
List what is in the bin:
.EX
$ toss list
.EE
.PP
Restore an item whose name contains "report":
.EX
$ toss restore report
.EE
.PP
Empty the bin without being prompted:
.EX
$ toss empty -f
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm (1),
.BR trash-put (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Roman Hoehn.
Source code at \fIhttps://github.com/roman91DE/toss\fR.
